---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-17
published: true
labels:
  - Browser History 1
---

## E1: Basic Technical Blog
**For Browser History One,** my strategy was to read the instructions well. I have done a little bit of HTML and CSS a long time ago and I thought that the assignment would be a piece of cake. After reading the instructions, I was confident that I was going to be able to finish in a decent time on the very first try. Well, I was wrong. First, getting the set up to do the WODs was complicating. I knew that when you press shift, command, and five together on a Mac, it turns on a recorder to screencast. I run a test, but I could not get the microphone to work. So, I took the recommendation of the assignment and downloaded a new software, the OBS studio app. After playing with it for a while, I was able to understand how it worked well enough to start my first casting. It did not take long for me to notice that it was going to be impossible to finish the screencast in fifteen minutes or less. I did not prepare the links that I had to open ahead of time and sometimes when I have many windows open in my browser, things are slow to load. I also noticed that I was worried about the clock and between looking at the clock and trying to look back at the task that I was supposed to do, I was losing time and focus. When it got to twenty minutes I stopped.
**For Browser History two,** it was a bit the same as browser one. I thought it was just a little bit of CSS and I would be able to do it in a matter of minutes. But since I learned a bit from Browser One, I did not get my expectations get the best of me. I took my time and once again read the instructions clearly and move down the list methodically. The first attempt, I Actually went over the time because I try to do a couple of things differently. I enjoyed the styling and found myself having a fun time for the first time. 
**For Browser History Three,** I once again went over the time limit the first attempt, but once again it was because I got interested in doing different things and moving blocks around. This was part fun and part frustration as well. Sometimes, I thought I created a CSS that would behave like "A" and when I loaded on the browser it looked like "B". For the third assignment I think I just did two attempts, because I felt more comfortable with the styling. 
**I felt frustrated,** I felt that they were simple tasks and that I should’ve being able to do it at least at an average level. Though I did not feel well about myself, I knew I could at least do the assignment. So, planned better by doing the following. I opened the links that I was going to need in different windows, I told myself that I was not going to look at the stopwatch until I was done, I was going to read the entire question before starting the task, and I was just going to try to do my best in whatever time it took to get it done. By accomplishing these four things I was able to finish browser one in Sd time, browser two in Av time, and browser three in Rx in my second attempt. 
**Over all,** that was a good plan. I still was frustrated, but it was not because of the time or the code itself, it was because I knew that the only way to get better at coding is by doing again and again. I noticed that reading the question out loud was taking too much of my time, and that by now I knew what was asked of me. So, I just read a little to remind myself what was the task and moved on. In conclusion the WODs are a good way to practice and to get better at coding. I don't recommend viewing the video answers, they will help solve the assignment but won't make you better at coding. I understand that is better if I do the research myself. Is better to go to the web and find answers by looking at code and at the www3School. I found out that to get better at coding you need to break your head and code.

